0b22db40e9e78fb29f6ae2938ed8ee2d00cd46b2

text: "Prior studies of clay-virus interactions have focused on the stability and infectivity of nonenveloped viruses, yielding contradictory results. We hypothesize that the surface charge distribution of the clay and virus envelope dictates how the components react and affect aggregation, viral stability, and infectivity. The bacteriophage Cystoviridae species φ6 used in this study is a good model for enveloped pathogens. The interaction between φ6 and montmorillonite (MMT) clay (the primary component of bentonite) is explored by transmission electron microscopy. The analyses show that MMT-φ6 mixtures undergo heteroaggregation, forming structures in which virtually all the virions are either sequestered between MMT platelet layers or attached to platelet edges. The virions swell and undergo disassembly resulting in partial or total envelope loss. Edgeattached viral envelopes distort to increase contact area with the positively charged platelet edges indicating that the virion surface is negatively charged. The nucleocapsid (NCs) remaining after envelope removal also exhibit distortion, in contrast to detergent-produced NCs which exhibit no distortion. This visually discernible disassembly is a mechanism for loss of infectivity previously unreported by studies of nonenveloped viruses. The MMT-mediated sequestration and disassembly result in reduced infectivity, suggesting that clays may reduce infectivity of enveloped pathogenic viruses in soils and sediments."

b68116ee90396153b02fa37a31feed919b43e661

text: "Numerous microorganisms produce lectins of different kinds that are specific for animal cell surface carbohydrates. 1, 2 In viruses, the lectins occur as membrane constituents, in bacteria they are generally present on the cell surface, often as submicroscopic multisubunit surface appendages known as fimbriae or pili, and occasionally in intracellular soluble form, while in protozoa they are constituents of the cell envelope. Most of these lectins serve to tether the organisms to a substratum (e.g., soil bacteria to clays or marine bacteria to corals) in order to better access nutrients, escape deleterious agents, and withstand cleansing. In animals, they serve for the attachment (or adhesion) of the microorganisms to host tissues or cells, a prerequisite for infection, and are therefore among the virulence factors of the microorganisms. Detailed knowledge of the specificity and combining sites of these lectins is of importance not only for the understanding of a basic mechanism conserved throughout evolution, but also for the development of powerful inhibitors of the lectins for blocking microbial adhesion to tissues. This is the aim of antiadhesion therapy of microbial diseases. 3, 4 Most of the microbial lectins have only been poorly characterized. Their existence and specificity have been inferred primarily from inhibition experiments, in which the effect of different carbohydrates is examined on adhesion of the organisms to animal cells or on the agglutination of erythrocytes or other kinds of cell, such as yeasts. 1,2 Specificity for the carbohydrate of glycolipids or glycoproteins is usually assessed by binding of the bacterial lectins to these glycoconjugates separated on thin layer chromatograms or on blots of gel electrophoresis, respectively. Recently, the application of glycan microarrays for specificity studies of viral and bacterial lectins has been described. 5,6 In a few cases, the specificity and association constants of carbohydrates to the isolated lectins have been measured by physicochemical techniques, for example, by surface plasmon resonance. 64 Binding of carbohydrates to lectins, including those of microbial sources, is generally characterized by a low affinity for monovalent ligands, a drawback balanced by multivalency, which provides high avidity for complex glycans or cell surfaces. In general, millimolar affinity is observed for lectin binding to monosaccharides, although cases of lectins 623 with micromolar affinities are known. 7 When oligosaccharides act as ligands, corresponding to an extended binding site on the lectins, increased affinity up to the micromolar range can be observed. These interactions are typified by a favorable enthalpy term, due to the high number of hydrogen bonds that is offset by an unfavorable entropy contribution, attributed either to solvent rearrangement or loss of ligand conformational flexibility."

2884fdee6db20fa38c7ad56008b0ff4b84eeb41d
text: "Background: Inanimate surfaces have often been described as the source for outbreaks of nosocomial infections. The aim of this review is to summarize data on the persistence of different nosocomial pathogens on inanimate surfaces."

422cd9eb3c56e4f05ba9ced4ecbda48bdc043c16
text: "Background: Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) is an enteric disease of swine that has emerged as a worldwide threat to swine herd health and production. Substantial research has been conducted to assess viability of the virus on surfaces of vehicles and equipment, in feed and water, and on production building surfaces, but little is known about the persistence in PEDV-infected carcasses and effective disposal methods thereof. This study was conducted to quantify the persistence of PEDV RNA via quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) at various time-temperature combinations and in infected piglet carcasses subjected to composting. Although this method does not distinguish between infectious and noninfectious virus, it is a rapid and sensitive test to evaluate materials for evidence of virus genome. Results: In the first study, PEDV was suspended in cell culture media at 1 × 10 5 TCID50 per sample (1 mL sample size) and subjected to various time and temperature combinations in triplicate including temperatures of 37, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70°C and exposure times of 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 14 days. At all temperatures, viral RNA copies declined over time, with the decline most marked and rapid at 65 and 70°C. Detectable RNA did persist throughout the trial in all but the most extreme condition, where two of three samples incubated at 70°C yielded undetectable viral RNA after 14 days. In the second study, PEDV-infected piglet carcasses were subjected to two cycles of composting lasting 36 and 37 days, respectively, for a total compost time of 73 days. Composting was performed in triplicate windrow sections housed inside biosecure, climate-controlled rooms using insulated bins designed to represent a continuous windrow compost pile. Temperatures reached 35-57°C for 26 days of cycle 1 and 35-45°C for 3 days of cycle 2. Samples consisting of carbon material with or without decomposed tissue as available per sample site collected at ten locations throughout the cross-section of each windrow section following the primary and secondary compost cycles yielded no detectable viral RNA."

f95dff44aae700378dd3746ea194c9a31a7b15b8
text: "Currently, the emergence of a novel human coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, has become a global health concern causing severe respiratory tract infections in humans. Human-to-human transmissions have been described with incubation times between 2-10 days, facilitating its spread via droplets, contaminated hands or surfaces. We therefore reviewed the literature on all available information about the persistence of human and veterinary coronaviruses on inanimate surfaces as well as inactivation strategies with biocidal agents used for chemical disinfection, e.g. in healthcare facilities. The analysis of 22 studies reveals that human coronaviruses such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) coronavirus, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) coronavirus or endemic human coronaviruses (HCoV) can persist on inanimate surfaces like metal, glass or plastic for up to 9 days, but can be efficiently inactivated by surface disinfection procedures with 62e71% ethanol, 0.5% hydrogen peroxide or 0.1% sodium hypochlorite within 1 minute. Other biocidal agents such as 0.05e0.2% benzalkonium chloride or 0.02% chlorhexidine digluconate are less effective. As no specific therapies are available for SARS-CoV-2, early containment and prevention of further spread will be crucial to stop the ongoing outbreak and to control this novel infectious thread."

3677789674e47d9e9b35f87c659430e5295370e9
text: "The evolution of new and reemerging historic virulent strains of respiratory viruses from animal reservoirs is a significant threat to human health. Inefficient human-to-human transmission of zoonotic strains may initially limit the spread of transmission, but an infection may be contracted by touching contaminated surfaces. Enveloped viruses are often susceptible to environmental stresses, but the human coronaviruses responsible for severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) have recently caused increasing concern of contact transmission during outbreaks. We report here that pathogenic human coronavirus 229E remained infectious in a human lung cell culture model following at least 5 days of persistence on a range of common nonbiocidal surface materials, including polytetrafluoroethylene (Teflon; PTFE), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), ceramic tiles, glass, silicone rubber, and stainless steel. We have shown previously that noroviruses are destroyed on copper alloy surfaces. In this new study, human coronavirus 229E was rapidly inactivated on a range of copper alloys (within a few minutes for simulated fingertip contamination) and Cu/Zn brasses were very effective at lower copper concentration. Exposure to copper destroyed the viral genomes and irreversibly affected virus morphology, including disintegration of envelope and dispersal of surface spikes. Cu(I) and Cu(II) moieties were responsible for the inactivation, which was enhanced by reactive oxygen species generation on alloy surfaces, resulting in even faster inactivation than was seen with nonenveloped viruses on copper. Consequently, copper alloy surfaces could be employed in communal areas and at any mass gatherings to help reduce transmission of respiratory viruses from contaminated surfaces and protect the public health."

c23ca3e907605d72fe9c03903ae31a5c0a948493
text: "This chapter summarises data on the persistence of food-and waterborne viruses in the natural environment and discusses the different factors which can affect this persistence. Conventional and alternative methods by which persistence can be studied are described, and the natural factors infl uencing virus persistence outside the host organism are discussed. Available data concerning virus persistence in water, soil, on surfaces and in food products are reviewed. Key words: food and waterborne viruses, methods for study of virus persistence, factors affecting virus persistence, water, soil, surfaces, food products. Norovirus, rotavirus Kingsley et al ., 2005 ; Caballero et al ., 2004 ss single-stranded; ds double-stranded; + positive sense. Source: Supplemented and adapted from Baert et al. (2009)."


